---
type: project
date: 2024-10-10T9:00:00+9:00
title: 'Design Project 3: Low-fidelity Prototyping'
pdf:
attachment:
solutions:
hide_from_announcements: true
# due_event: 
#     type: due
#     date: 2024-04-05T23:59:00
#     description: 'DP2 due'
---

## What do we do?
Let’s start giving your design idea a digital life by creating a low-fidelity digital prototype. This is a low-fidelity version of your prototype, meaning you should not put too much effort into making it pretty or polishing every detail. Focus on the essential interactions and functions of your design. Rather than use HTML and JavaScript, you’ll use a prototyping tool to implement the tasks and scenarios. A widely used tool for digital prototyping is [Figma](https://www.figma.com/login), but if you are more familiar with a different digital prototyping tool you should check with the course staff to see if it's okay to use that instead. 

Functionality does not need to be fully implemented. Please use hard-coded but realistic data, Wizard-of-Oz, and fake results, so that you can focus on the essential: the user’s task, scenario, and UI components to support them rather than the underlying implementation. **You need to build a prototype that supports end-to-end scenarios**. Your prototype needs to support at least **three distinct tasks**. This does not mean you need to build three separate prototypes, but rather this means you need to build one complete prototype that is flexible enough to support the three tasks. 

**Note:** In our feedback, we have strongly encouraged you to narrow down the scope of the idea and focus on the core social computing aspect of the idea. Supporting three tasks should also be thought as a way to focus, not diverge. You should define concrete tasks that are connected to the core idea, not three completely disjoint tasks that make it work like three separate systems.

**You will do a live demo of your prototype during the studio presentation**. A live demo must focus on explaining how tasks are supported rather than functional features. Try to capture the end-to-end scenario. 

[comment]: <> After building your digital prototype, **find at least three participants to test it**. Make sure they are not friends who know about your project already, or classmates. Preferably, **try to find participants who are close to your target user group**. If they are not your target user, please explain how they still provide valuable feedback for your prototype.


## Your Report
Your report should include:

* **Problem Statement**: Re-state the problem you're tackling in your project. Based on what you've learned so far, you can revise your problem statement.
* **Tasks (3)**: List the three core tasks you've decided to support in your prototype. Again, you can reuse or improve what you had earlier.
  * Connection with DP2 HMWs & Solutions: How each task is linked to HMWs and solutions in DP2. If your HMWs and solutions have changed since the DP2 report, please use the final version and explain it in Updates from DP2.
* **Prototype**:
  * Link to your prototype (1): Your prototype needs to be accessible and executable by anyone with the link.
  * Design choices: What did you intentionally choose NOT to implement (e.g., fake or hard-coded data, manual algorithm, etc.), and why not?
  * Representative screenshots: Include a few most important screenshots that showcase the uniqueness of your application. Please do not put every single page of your prototype, but only the representative ones.
  * Instructions: Please include instructions for running your prototype in detail. It should tell us what kind of actions should be done to proceed with each task.
[comment]: <> * **Observations**: Briefly describe your participants: how many you had, (very brief) background information that is related to your prototype. List at least 10 usability problems you discovered. Organize them by high-level task or theme, not by each participant or time. But mention which participant ran into the problem by referring to them as P1, P2, ... (e.g., search results did not show the price information (P1, P3)). For each problem, indicate how critical the problem is: high, medium, and low. Finally, show how you plan to address each of the problems in the later stage of your design process.


## Grading
* **Problem Statement** (10%)
  * Problem statement is clearly written?
  * Lists a problem not a solution?
* **Tasks** (30%)
  * Good usability? (e.g., learnable? efficient? safe?)
  * Tasks align with the problem statement?
  * Three or more tasks?
  * Are the tasks distinct from each other?
  * Are the tasks described concretely and clearly?
  * User-level description not functionality description?
* **Prototype** (50%)
  * Tool description and justfication are clear?
  * Design choices are justified?
  * Design choices mention what's not selected by the team?
  * Screenshots are added?
  * Screenshots capture representative moments of the prototype?
  * The prototype captures the three tasks?
  * The prototype is complete in that it supports an end-to-end scenario?
  * The prototype is accessible and executable?
  * Instructions for running the prototype are clear?
[comment]: <> * **Observations** (30%)
[comment]: <>  * Participant information provided with clarity?
[comment]: <>  * 10+ usability issues submitted?
[comment]: <>  * Are the usability issues described concretely and clearly?
[comment]: <>  * Organized by high-level task or theme?
[comment]: <>  * Level of criticality included?
[comment]: <>  * Is the plan for improvements reasonable and sound?
* **Studio Presentation** (10%)
  * Preparation and organization?
  * Articulation and clear delivery?
  * Effective use of visual aids?
  * Time management?

## Deliverables
**Studio Presentation**: In studio, your team will present your main findings for 7 minutes, with 5 minutes for Q&A and feedback. You need to prepare a Google Slides presentation, by editing the template slides in your team folder. The slides should be ready by **10:29am on Tuesday before the studio begins**. **Every team member** needs to participate in the presentation. Write down the questions and feedback you receive during your presentation, and reflect on them in your report.

**Team Report**: One report per team. Your report should be submitted as a zip file. The main report should be written in [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) (please use the *.md* extension). Any images accompanying your report should be scanned in png or jpg, and need to be in a directory called *images*. We're going to publish your reports on the course website. Submit using KLMS.