---
type: project
date: 2024-11-25T9:00:00+9:00
title: 'Design Project Milestone 5: Showcase and Final Report'
pdf:
attachment:
solutions:
hide_from_announcements: true
# due_event: 
#     type: due
#     date: 2024-04-05T23:59:00
#     description: 'DP2 due'
---

## What do we do?
Now that you have an awesome prototype that is (hopefully) getting a lot of excitement from your users, it's time to tell us about what you built and what you learned from having real users use the system. In the project showcase session, each team will give a 7-minute presentation of their project and do a live demo + interactive Q&A. You will summarize your overall findings in your final report.

* **Part 1. Presentation**  
You'll have 7 minutes to do the following:
  * Motivate the problem
  * List the main tasks you're trying to support.
  * Explain your solution and how it is different/better than existing systems.
  * Walk through your interface. You can use video or screenshots or even do a live demo, but a video showing the interface being used is likely to be the safest and smoothest option.
  * Tell us about your deployment. How many users did you attract? What are some exciting results that suggest your application served the tasks well? What did you learn from designing social interactions?
  * Limitations, implications, and possible future improvements.

  Note that presentations will be timed and must be kept strictly within 7 minutes! We will cut you off if you go too long. All team members must participate in the presentation. There is no Q&A during the presentations this time.

* **Part 2. Demo**
After the presentations, we will have a 30 minute period for interactive demos. At your assigned table, be ready to show a demo of your working prototype to the class. People will walk freely by the tables and try any demo they would like. 

After the pitches and demo session, we'll hand out a few awards based on different categories, such as "most human-centered", "best prototype", etc.

* **Part 3. Report**
For your final report, you'll summarize your system and report on your experiences with users. The report should contain the following:

  * **Representative screenshots**: Include a few most important screenshots that showcase the uniqueness of your application. Add callouts, annotations, or captions.
  * **Quality arguments (max. 300 words)**: Make convincing arguments for what makes your interface "great" and why the expected social interaction is successfully supported. Add comments from users that could support your arguments. Depending on your interface, you may focus on different aspects: useful features, visual design, good usability, novel UI components you designed, sophisticated implementation, etc. This is your chance to convince us that what you created is a high quality user interface.
  * **Evaluation (max. 300 words)**: How did your deployment go? Report the number of users, feedback from users, analysis, etc. Use visual aids (e.g., charts, tables, graphs) to effectively communicate the results. NOTE: Please do not include results generated by your own team!!
  * **Discussion (max. 500 words)**: Connect the lessons from the project to important aspects of social computing covered in class: incentives for participation, quality control, supporting social interaction (communication, collaboration, networking...), privacy, ethics, etc. This is your chance to show that you thought deeply about the concepts we covered in class while you were working on your designs.
  * **Individual reflection (max. 300 words per person)**: Each member should write this part on their own, reflecting on their personal experience. Merge all members' mini-reports in the final report. Please answer the following questions:
    * What part of the implementation did you contribute to? Be concrete and honest, please.
    * What worked well and not in your team? How did you overcome any hurdle in teamwork? What lesson about teamwork did you learn that you might apply to your next team project?
    * What skills or experience did you gain while working on this project?



## Grading
* **Final Pitch and Demo** (20%)
  * Pitch: How engaging, creative, and effective is the overall pitch?
  * Demo: Is the demo working well and are people able to try it out?
* **Team Report** (80%)
  * **Quality Arguments** (20%)
    * Convincing arguments with supporting evidence?
    * High quality interface overall? We will look at a variety of aspects such as completeness, robustness, novelty, feasibility, UI-level contribution, etc.
    * 300 words or less?
  * **Evaluation** (20%)
    * The evaluation is complete and shows if and how the system worked as expected?
    * Main points in feedback from users are communicated clearly and efficiently. 
    * 300 words or less?
  * **Discussion** (20%)
    * Discussion touches upon important aspects of social interaction supported by the team's application?
    * Discussion has depth of insight, and connects to concepts discussed in class.
    * 500 words or less?
  * **Individual Reflections** (20%) - graded individually
    * Individual contribution clearly specified?
    * Teamwork discussion includes both the good and the bad?
    * Teamwork discussion has enough depth and insight?
    * Skills/experience gained are clearly explained?
    * 300 words or less?


## Deliverables
**Presentation and Demo**: The project will be presented and demo-ed as per the instructions above

**Team Report**:One report per team. Your report should be submitted as a zip file. The main report should be written in Markdown (please use the .md extension). Name the file after your team name. Submit via KLMS.
