---
type: project
date: 2024-10-29T9:00:00+9:00
title: 'Design Project Milestone 4: High-Fi Prototype'
pdf:
attachment:
solutions:
hide_from_announcements: true
# due_event: 
#     type: due
#     date: 2024-04-05T23:59:00
#     description: 'DP2 due'
---

## What do we do?
Now's the time for a fully functional and interactive prototype that is ready to be tested by your target users. You need to build a prototype that supports end-to-end scenarios captured in your earlier prototypes. Your prototype needs to support at least three distinct tasks. This does not mean you need to build three separate prototypes, but rather this means you need to build one complete prototype that is flexible enough to support the three tasks. You may choose to reuse or revise the tasks and the UI you created in earlier stages. Make sure your tasks are centered around novel social interaction you intend to support. 

**Note:** Other features not included in your previous layouts (e.g., login systems, usernames) may be necessary in order to support the core functions of your prototype, but it's okay to have very basic or simplified versions of these features. These are not the focus of the grading. 

## Your Report 
Your report should include:
* **Project Summary** (maximum three sentences): (1) the problem you're addressing, (2) what your solution is, (3) what unique approach you're taking in your solution (how it's different from other similar solutions). This summary will be used as a blurb on the project gallery.
* **Instruction**: Give a quick tour of the interface, and also show off some of the highlights of the interface. Note that this should not cover all features you have; focus on the most exciting and important parts. Use screenshots and callouts.
* **URL of your prototype**: A live version of the prototype for evalation. **Note: the URL must work at least until your assignment is graded.** Course staff will run your prototype to do a heuristic evaluation for grading. If the link doesn't work, your team will be penalized. If there are specific requirements (e.g., browser or device settings), include them as well.
* **URL of your Git repository**: Make sure to add a README file that briefly describes the code, e.g., main JavaScript file, or where main feature implementations are, etc. A few lines of text should be sufficient.
* **Libraries and frameworks**: List any external dependencies you used for your implementation (e.g., Bootstrap, Semantic UI, etc.). Please also list any coding support tools you used.
* **Individual Reflections**: Each member should write this part on their own, reflecting on their own experience. Merge all members' mini-reports in the final report. Answer the following questions:
  * Which part(s) of the system did you directly contribute to?
  * What were some of the difficulties you faced?
  * List one useful skill you learned while working on the high-fi prototype.

## Grading
* **Project Summary** (10%)
  * Clear description of the problem?
  * Clear description of the solution?
  * Clear description of the approach?
* **Instruction** (20%)
  * Screenshots are added?
  * Instructions are clear and easy to follow?
  * Screenshots capture representative features of the prototype?
* **Prototype** (40%)
  * The prototype is complete in that it supports an end-to-end scenario?
  * Heuristic evaluation results: how usable is it?
* **Implementation Notes** (10%)
  * Prototype URL is accessible and works properly?
  * Repository URL is accessible and contains README?
  * Libraries, frameworks, and coding support tools used are listed?
* **Individual Reflections** (10%) -- graded individually
  * Individual contribution clearly specified?
  * Difficulty discussion has enough depth and insight?
  * Non-trivial implementation skill added?
* **Studio Presentation** (10%)
  * Preparation and organization?
  * Articulation and clear delivery?
  * Effective use of visual aids?
  * Time management?

## Deliverables
**Studio Presentation**: In studio, your team will present your high fidelity prototype for 7 minutes, with 5 minutes for Q&A and feedback. The format of this presentation is flexible -- similar to the Low-fi Prototype presentation -- but you will probably be presenting directly from your tool with some additional explanation.  **Every team member** needs to participate in the presentation.

**Team Report**: One report per team. Your report should be submitted as a zip file. The main report should be written in [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) (please use the *.md* extension). Any images accompanying your report should be scanned in png or jpg, and need to be in a directory called *images*. We're going to publish your reports on the course website. Individual reflections should be written individually by each member, but can all be contained in the main report. Submit using KLMS.

